EDU-3638 feat: add object storage reference documentation (#569)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/main-menu/reference/store/object-storage/index.mdx

| Upload and download objects | [How to upload and download objects from an Azion Object Storage bucket](/en/documentation/products/guides/upload-and-download-objects-from-bucket/) |
| Runtime API | [Object Storage API](/en/documentation/devtools/runtime/api-reference/storage/) |

---

## Buckets

Buckets are the system used to organize stored objects. Similar to folders, buckets are the top-level containers to store objects. All buckets created with Azion **Object Storage** are stored in the *us-west* cloud server.

Bucket names must be unique and range between 6 and 63 characters. Alphanumeric characters and hyphen (`-`) are accepted. 

Best practices for naming buckets include specifying what types of objects are stored and the type of permissions for the objects. For example, a bucket for an edge application `Banking App` in read-only mode could be named `banking-app-ro`.

---

## Objects

Objects, or files, can be uploaded, modified, downloaded, and removed from buckets using the [Azion REST API](https://api.azion.com), [Edge Runtime](/en/documentation/devtools/runtime/overview/) and the [Azion CLI](/en/documentation/products/azion-cli/overview/).

> Each object uploaded to an **Object Storage** bucket is identified through an object key, which is similar to a file name. The object key is not required to match the original file name from local storage or contain the file extension. However, when uploading a local file to a bucket, it is recommended to name the object key after the file to match storage conventions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each object uploaded to an **Object Storage** bucket is identified through an object key, which is similar to a file name. The object key isn't required to match the original file name from local storage or contain the file extension. However, when uploading a local file to a bucket, it's recommended to name the object key after the file to match storage conventions.
```

> Folder hierarchy is not applicable to buckets. To simulate folder behaviors, you can use the forward slash (`/`) when creating keys to categorize objects in your bucket into a prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Folder hierarchy isn't applicable to buckets. To simulate folder behaviors, you can use the forward slash (`/`) when creating keys to categorize objects in your bucket into a prefix.
```

For instance, the list of keys below represents the simulated hierarchy of an application stored in a bucket with prefixes:

```bash
README.md
/src/index.js
/src/index.html
/src/assets/styles.css
/src/assets/images/image.png
```

The object `README.md` is located at the root of the bucket. The prefix `src` corresponds to a folder and contains the objects `index.js` and `index.html`. Additionally, the `src` prefix also contains the `assets` prefix that houses a `styles.css` object and the `images` prefix, which, in turn, houses the `image.png` object.

> Uploading a different object or modifying object contents using an existing key replaces the object. Once an object is replaced, earlier versions cannot be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uploading a different object or modifying object contents using an existing key replaces the object. Once an object is replaced, earlier versions can't be retrieved.
```

---

## Origin

> **Object Storage** can be used as an [origin](/en/documentation/products/build/edge-application/origins/#object-storage) in Azion **Edge Application** to retrieve the content of an edge application from a bucket.

Author: ```suggestion
With **Object Storage**, you can use buckets as an [origin](/en/documentation/products/build/edge-application/origins/#object-storage) in Azion **Edge Application** to retrieve the content of an edge application.
```

You can determine if the content is retrieved from the root of the bucket or from a prefix within the bucket.

---

## Transactions

A transaction refers to an exchange between a client and **Object Storage**. Any action related to buckets and objects (create, delete, list, and update) is considered a transaction. Each time one of these methods is used, a transaction is logged. 

:::note
Transactions are charged by classes. If a transaction falls outside of the scope of class A operations, it'll be billed to your account. For more information on transaction and class charges, see the [Pricing](https://www.azion.com/en/pricing/) page.
:::

> Transaction history can be accessed through [Real-Time Events](/en/documentation/products/observe/real-time-events/) logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transaction history can be accessed through [Real-Time Events GraphQL API](/en/documentation/products/graphql-api/features/events-fields/#activityhistoryevents-activity-history) logs.
```

> Transaction history can be accessed through [Real-Time Events GraphQL API](/en/documentation/products/graphql-api/features/events-fields/#activityhistoryevents-activity-history) logs.

Author: ```suggestion
Transaction history can be accessed through [Real-Time Events GraphQL API](/en/documentation/products/graphql-api/features/events-fields/#activityhistoryevents-activity-history).
```

The current release of the **Object Storage** offers the following transactions:

| Class | Transaction name | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | A | Put Object | Upload an object to a bucket. Executed through the `PUT` method. <br></br>Requires read-write permission. |
> | A | Post Object | Upload an object to a bucket. Executed through the `POST` method. <br></br>Requires read-write permission. |
> | A | Delete Object | Remove an object from a bucket. Executed through the `DELETE` method. <br></br>Requires read-write permission. |
> | A | Delete Bucket | Remove a bucket from an account. Executed through the `DELETE` method. |
> | B | Get Object | Retrieve an object from a bucket. Executed through the `GET` method. |
> | C | List Objects | Retrieve a list of objects uploaded to a bucket. Executed through the `GET` method. |
> | C | Create Bucket | Create a new bucket for an account. Executed through the `POST` method. |
> | C | List Buckets | Retrieve a list of buckets associated with an account. Executed through the `GET` method. |
> | C | Update Bucket | Modify bucket information. Executed through the `PATCH` method. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| A | Put Object | Upload an object to a bucket. Executed through the `PUT` method. <br></br>Requires read-write permission |
| A | Post Object | Upload an object to a bucket. Executed through the `POST` method. <br></br>Requires read-write permission |
| A | Delete Object | Remove an object from a bucket. Executed through the `DELETE` method. <br></br>Requires read-write permission |
| A | Delete Bucket | Remove a bucket from an account. Executed through the `DELETE` method |
| B | Get Object | Retrieve an object from a bucket. Executed through the `GET` method |
| C | List Objects | Retrieve a list of objects uploaded to a bucket. Executed through the `GET` method |
| C | Create Bucket | Create a new bucket for an account. Executed through the `POST` method |
| C | List Buckets | Retrieve a list of buckets associated with an account. Executed through the `GET` method |
| C | Update Bucket | Modify bucket information. Executed through the `PATCH` method |
```

Reviewer 2: Description should be in 3rd person?
Uploads, Removes, Retrieves, etc... Considering it refers to transactions and the actions they do....

---

## Authentication and permissions

Actions involving buckets, such as uploading, listing, and deleting objects, always require authentication through the Azion account.

In addition to the required authentication, some transactions are restricted by bucket permissions. The permissions available are:

- **Read-only**: objects in the bucket can be read but not modified.
- **Read-write**: objects in the bucket can be modified.

> - **Restricted**: objects in the bucket can be modified and read but cannot be accessed by the Azion Edge Platform. Buckets can't be modified using Edge Runtime or CLI and can't be used as an origin for edge applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Restricted**: objects in the bucket can be modified and read but can't be accessed by the Azion Edge Platform. Buckets can't be modified using Edge Runtime or CLI and can't be used as an origin for edge applications.
```

---
title: Object Storage
description: Azion Object Storage is a scalable and secure storage service designed to integrate object storage with the Azion Edge Computing Platform using the S3 standard.
meta_tags: object storage, storage, cloud, s3, bucket, file storage
namespace: documentation_products_store_object_storage
permalink: /documentation/products/store/object-storage/
---

import Badge from '~/components/Badge.astro';

<Badge variant="accent">
  Preview
</Badge>

Azion **Object Storage** is a scalable and secure storage service designed to integrate object storage with the Azion Edge Computing Platform using the S3 standard. Buckets can be used as origins for edge applications or as directories for real-time object upload.

Alongside bucket creation, you possess complete control over storage allocation. This includes management of read/write permissions and the ability to upload, change, and delete objects.

:::note
This feature is available via the [Azion API](https://api.azion.com), [Edge Runtime](/en/documentation/devtools/runtime/overview/), and [Azion CLI](/en/documentation/products/azion-cli/overview/).
:::

> 
> ## Implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

---

## Implementation
```

Author: Não lembro desse divider no padrão de referências @hannah-sk 🤔

Reviewer: acho que não tem, mesmo. pelo que me lembro a ideia é que ainda é parte do overview

| Scope | Resource |
| --- | --- |

> | Manage a bucket | [How to create and modify an Object Storage bucket](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-create-and-modify-bucket/) |
> | Upload and download objects | [How to upload and download objects from an Azion Object Storage bucket](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-upload-and-download-objects-from-bucket/) |

Author: ```suggestion
| Manage a bucket | [How to create and modify an Object Storage bucket](/en/documentation/products/guides/create-and-modify-bucket/) |
| Upload and download objects | [How to upload and download objects from an Azion Object Storage bucket](/en/documentation/products/guides/upload-and-download-objects-from-bucket/) |
```

| Runtime API | [Object Storage API](/en/documentation/devtools/runtime/api-reference/storage/) |

---

## Buckets

> Buckets are the system used to organize stored objects, or files. Similar to folders, buckets are the top-level containers to store objects. All buckets created with Azion **Object Storage** are stored in the *us-west* cloud server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Buckets are the system used to organize stored objects or files. Similar to folders, buckets are the top-level containers to store objects. All buckets created with Azion **Object Storage** are stored in the *us-west* cloud server.
```

Since bucket names identify buckets, each bucket should have a unique name. The name can contain alphanumeric characters and dash (`-`). Best practices for naming buckets include specifying what types of objects are stored and the type of permissions for the objects. For example, a bucket for an edge application `Banking App` in read-only mode could be named `banking-app-ro`.

---

## Permissions

Actions involving buckets, such as uploading, listing, and deleting objects, always require authorization. In addition to the required authentication through the Azion account, these actions are managed by the bucket's **Permissions**.

The permissions available are:

> - **Read-only**: objects in the bucket can only be read but not modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Read-only**: objects in the bucket can be read but not modified.
```
